 
 
Bajaj Finserv Health Limited – DATATHON 
(Where Individual Brilliance Meets Data) 
 
 
Start Date: 28th Nov’25 | 12:00 PM 
End Date: 30th Nov’25 | 12:00 PM 
Opportunity: Final Placement Offer  
Eligibility: Class of 2026 (Final Year Students)  | Format: Individual Datathon 
Degree: B.Tech & B. Tech + M.Tech (Integrated) | All streams are eligible for the Datathon 
Registration Link : https:/ /www.surveymonkey.com/r/datathon_25  
 
 
About Bajaj Finserv Health | Background and Purpose: 
Bajaj Finserv Health and affiliate companies are in the business of Health Insurance Claims processing 
OPD (out-patient) & IPD (in-patient) . We process millions of bills (Invoices) a month and have to 
ensure we ‘pay right’. 
 
These bills are received as scanned photos and pdfs (running into 30-40 pages). Bills have to be 
reviewed by processing agents and appropriate amounts have to be extracted to be entered into the 
system. We are digitizing/automating this process of bill data extraction - extracting the line-item 
data and bill totals. The problem statement below is in-line with “Improving’ the accuracy of the bill 
extraction process”. 
 
Problem statement:  
You will be given a set of bills (invoices) with multiple pages (training data); you need to design and 
develop data extraction/summarization models that will ‘extract the line item details from these bills  
and also provide ‘individual line item amount’,  ‘Sub-total’ and ‘Final Total’ of the bill amounts extracted 
(sub-totals will be required only where they exist in the bill). ‘Final Total’ will be sum (of all individual 
line items in the bills) without double-counting.  
 
It’s important to ensure that, you don’t miss out on any line-item entries and at the same time don’t 
double count any entries. The closer your ‘Total AI extracted amounts’ is equal to the ‘Actual Bill 
Total’ -the better your accuracy. 
 
Tools: 
You are free to use any LLM models or services (like OCR) available in the market. Programming 
languages such as Python, Java can be used to create APIs. 
(Any cost incurred for the usage of any paid tools should be borne by the students) 
 
Input provided (to all teams) 
Training data consisting of bills with varying degrees of formats (simple to more 
complex/multilingual/handwritten etc.); A sample of outputs for these training data will also be 
provided 
 
Deliverable: 
• Models that perform these extractions with high accuracy (to be submitted in a private Github 
repo) 
• An API that will accept a document(s) with multiple pages and provide output in expected 
JSON format. Link to Download the JSON Format. 
• This API will be used by our teams to score your models and rank you on the leaderboard; 
any updates to the problem statement and the API structure will be published on the below link. 
https:/ /datathon.healthrx.co.in/#problem-statement  
 
 
 


• A pitch deck – that represents your overall architecture and ‘tech/model stack < 2-3 pages>; 
Call out your differentiators. Link to Download the Pitch deck Format. 
 
  
Differentiators:  
• For some of the documents we provide you, you will require pre-processing to improve 
‘extraction accuracy’, please call out any ‘pre-processing’ you have used  
• Some of the documents we provide will also have elements of ‘fraud’, e.g. inconsistent ‘fonts 
types’, ‘overwriting with whitener’ etc. if you are able to catch these – this is also your 
differentiator 
 
Criteria for Interview Selection 
• Overall score in the leader board 
• Pitch deck and architecture used 
• Differentiators 
• Latency of APIs 
• Github code review 
 
*Its important that everyone solves this assignment individually; Anyone we suspect to have 
plagiarized the solutions will be automatically disqualified * 
 
Appendix 1:  
Illustration of sample documents we will provide for training and illustration of output from these 
documents (we will give the exact json structure you need to create) 
 
 
 
 
Note: Leaderboard scoring and final assessments are internal processes. BFHL reserves full rights to modify or update them 
as deemed necessary. 
